Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in the last group of lectures, I introduced you and we
went through the ins and outs of Snapchat, how it works,
how to do takeovers and run promotions,
where they hide the stash of IPO money.
Snapchat is still a platform that
marketers are trying to figure out,
and Instagram is very much the same kind of story.
Even though Facebook bought it for a bazillion
dollars, rough term, it was actually a billion dollars,
Instagram is still plowing ahead, amassing hundreds
of millions of new users every few months now, and
as a percentage, Instagram is growing quite
a bit faster than their parent, Facebook.
So why is it that marketers are still
trying to figure out Instagram?
Well, Instagram is like Snapchat,
built to post images and videos.
You can leave snarky comments and hashtags,
you can like stuff, you can connect with friends.
A lot of common tasks are done here, but people
love this platform because it's so straightforward.
It's a never ending scrolling feed of pictures of all
kinds. You have professionally shot and posed selfies
from celebrities, you have terribly lit awkward
angle selfies from complete strangers,
then you have things like pictures of cats, pictures
of events, pictures of cars, food, and outfits.
Then you also have videos of people doing funny things,
stupid things, adorable things, and again, videos of
cats - the list really could go on forever.
Instagram is also well known for being
what's considered like a lifestyle platform.
People who post on Instagram generally curate their
life more and more, therefore lifestyle brands are
particularly successful on this platform.
Why?
Because everyone uses it to kind of show
off a little bit, like "Hey, look at my life,"
whereas Snapchat is more extemporaneous,
it's like "Look at this crazy thing I just saw."
Is it worth posting it for everyone to see forever?
No, but it's interesting enough that you can
watch it for nine seconds and it disappears.
Now, I mentioned a while back about 60% of Instagram users
are under 30 and a third of its users are in their 30s and 40s.
Now, why do so many young people use it?
Well, many of them use the platform as a kind
of photo journal, a way to document their lives.
Whether it's a selfie or a shot of their outfit of the day,
Instagrammers will post just as many random shots
from their lives as Snapchatters will,
but instead of that picture flittering away into
digital nothingness 9-15 seconds later, it's instead
stored as a visual timeline,
a way to look back and see a
creative and personal journey.
Plus, you don't have to write much. Instagram
focuses on the visual, meaning you don't have to spend
a lot of time coming up with thoughtful things
to say or hammering out X number
of words to get your point across.
Simply take a picture, post it, and voila, you're done.
Yes, you have to write a caption, but that really
doesn't take long, around 30 seconds.
The one advantage Instagram has over Snapchat is
that it's much easier to find people and brands.
Its search is more logical and usable, and you can
mention and tag other Instagram accounts in your
pictures and descriptions. In Snapchat,
you can't actually do that. As an app,
Instagram is very easy and straightforward, even though
it doesn't have as many fun features as other apps, like,
you know, the lenses that Snapchat offers. Now,
the other advantage is with advertising. Instagram
advertising runs off of Facebook's ad network, so
there's actually a lot of opportunities to advertise
with a picture, video, or story. For brands, it makes the platform
and its users much more accessible than the other ones.
But, of course, it's going to cost money.
They're a little bit more mature. Now, beyond those
paid efforts, using Instagram to organically build
your audience and grow your customer numbers
is still a mystery to a lot of marketers.
Besides posting pictures, what am I supposed to do?
What can I do?
Well, the upcoming lectures will talk about setting
up Instagram for your business and some tactics to
use to get more customers.
So stay tuned and we'll dive right in.